<pre>
Title
Advanced Deep-Learning applications on protein models quality assessment.

Intro

Several methods are improving each year their ability to predict 3D structures starting from protein sequences.
However, it is still a very hard task for these procedures to identify the optimal protein fold. 
It is subsequently very important to follow up such methods with a quality assessment (QA) step, in order to verify 
modeled structures reliability. 
For the 14th CASP edition we submitted QA scores derived from two different Deep Learning-based predictors, 
ProQ4[1] and GraphQA[2]. Here we present a brief description of these methods, as well as a preview of such methods performance, 
calculated on this CASP edition targets for which a crystal structure is already available.

ProQ4 Method

ProQ4 is a Deep Learning predictor which uses as input a multiple sequence alignment (MSA), as well as a coarse representation 
of the protein models to be evaluated. This predictor is trained to extrapolate the Local Distance Difference Test (LDDT), 
a metric which allows both local and global model QA. ProQ4's neural network is composed by a complex architecture based on 
comparison between pairs of protein models. The predictor ability to discriminate which one of the models in each pair is better, 
is proven to confer a significant boost in the absolute scoring. 
In order to generate the input MSA, one iteration of jackHMMer has been run for each CASP target, using uniref90 as a search database 
and an E-value threshold of 1e-3. The resulting MSA in Stockholm format has been converted to fasta format using the esl-reformat tool 
from the HMMer package (version 3.1b2). Finally, the QA scores have been obtained by running ProQ4, after providing the fasta MSA 
and the list of models resulting from the different stages of each CASP target. 

GraphQA Method

GraphQA predicts protein quality using a graph-based representation of protein structure and a Graph Convolutional Network.
Overall, GraphQA employs input features similar to ProQ4, but achieves better performances on past CASP editions thanks to a better representation of spatial structure, which is based on graphs rather than sequences.
Specifically, the input to GraphQA is a graph whose nodes represent ammino-acids and whose edges represent contacts between residues. 
For each node, we provide an embedding of the amino-acid type, features from a multiple sequence alignment (MSA) computed against Uniref50, and secondary structure features from DSSP. By construction, edges are placed between nodes that are neighbors in the sequence, i.e. the corresponding residues appear close in the primary structure, or that are neigbors in space, i.e. they are within a certain distance in the tertiary structure.
A single GraphQA model is trained to output many quality assessment scores, at both the residue and protein level. Namely, for each residue LDDT and CAD scores are predicted. Also, at the protein level the model predicts: GDT-TS, GDT-HA, TM-score, LDDT and CAD.

</pre>
